Text for website / CV

Jamie Webber is a composer of microtonal music and a creative programmer based in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. He has been musical his whole life, beginning playing flute in elementary school and eventually completing a Music and Science Double-DEC at Vanier College and earning two bachelors degrees from McGill University in Music Composition and Neuroscience. He is fascinated by the music of late Quebecois composer Claude Vivier and continues to write in a personal adaptation of the late composer's style. Jamie has codified and works on programming projects that facilitate the use of the microtonal harmonic language that Vivier developed, and strives to act and elaborate on the processes that Vivier put in place for his compositional practice.

Jamie is comfortable with He/Him or They pronouns, and he half-jokingly likes to say that he is exploring the binary that exists between the binary and the non-binary. He delights in the way such a question folds onto itself and is full of seeming contradictions. He is fascinated by the differenes between linear and non-linear thinking, or between the binary and the non-binary, and this is part of what led him to studying Neuroscience. He writes about the neurosience of artistry, amongst other things, in his blog called Solipsism and Lunacy.

[He is also motivated by a deep belief in social justice, and has a strong belief in the importance today of rebuilding the political center. I believe that as more and more non-binary people begin to stand up and take their place, there will necessarily need to re-open some space for debate on the Left about how we talk about gender that will force us to rethink some of our basic concepts in a way that some people will not immediately be comfortable with. It's by some strange accident that Jamie has a white, male body and this is something he can't really do anything about.]

Jamie spent two years living in remote Cree and Inuit communities in the North of Quebec, teaching science and music for the non-profit Youth Fusion. He subsequently enrolled in the Music Therapy masters program at Wilfrid Laurier University but was put on leave after a semester after being badly triggered by one of the classroom exercises. In the year that followed he discovered that he is on the autism spectrum, and he decided not to return to the program following the teachers telling him that an autistic person couldn't be a therapist >:[ grrrrrrr


Jamie is very interested in the neuroscience of spirituality and the artistic process, and believes that studying the lives of creative individuals from a scientific point of view can teach us valuable lessons about how society works as a whole. He also deeply believes that there is presently a LOT to be learned from the living traditions of the Aboriginal and First Nations peoples and, having lived in two communities for a short amount of time he is hardly the expert but he is deeply concerned about how, even now on the Left we are still painting over the real content of their traditional belief systems in ways that are really just of the European tradition.

